1) What is Cloud Computing?

Ans : Cloud computing means providing services like storage, servers, database, networking, etc.

2) Which of the following is not a type of cloud server?

Ans : Merged Cloud Servers

3) Which of the following are the features of cloud computing?

Ans : Security, Availability, Large Network Access

4) Which of the following is a type of cloud computing service?

Ans : Software-as-a-Service(SaaS)

5) Which of the following is the Cloud Platform provided by Amazon?

Ans : AWS

6) Which architectural layer is used as a backend in cloud computing?

Ans : Cloud

7) Which of the following is the most refined and restrictive cloud service model?

Ans : PaaS(Product-as-a-Service)

8) Which of the following is not a property of cloud computing?

Ans : composability

9) Who is the father of cloud computing?

Ans : J.C.R. Licklider

10) Which of the following is NOT a type of cloud computing service?

Ans : Desktop as a Service (DaaS)

11) What is a common use case for IaaS(Infrastructure as a Service)?

Ans :  Virtual machines

12) Which of the following best describes a "hybrid cloud"?

Ans : A combination of private and public clouds.

13) Which cloud computing model is most suitable for developers to build, test, and deploy applications?

Ans : PaaS

14) Which of the following is an example of a public cloud provider?

Ans : Amazon Web Services (AWS)

15) Which of the following is a key concern for organizations when adopting cloud computing?

Ans : Security and privacy

16) Which term refers to moving an organization's entire infrastructure to the cloud?

Ans : Cloud migration

17) Which one of the following is cloud service model?

Ans : IaaS, PaaS, SaaS

18) Which cloud service model provides the highest level of control to the end user?

Ans : IaaS

19) What does "pay-as-you-go" pricing mean in cloud computing?

Ans : Paying based on actual usuage of cloud resources

20)  Which of the following terms describes a system that automatically increases or decreases its resources based on demand?

Ans: Elastic computing

21) Which of the following is a benefit of using IaaS?

Ans : Reduced need for in-house hardware, full control over the infrastructure, easy scalability

22) Which term refers to a service model where software is delivered over the internet on a subscription basis?

Ans : SaaS

23) What is the primary advantage of using a hybrid cloud model?

Ans : Flexibility to use both public and private resources

24) Which cloud deployment model offers dedicated resources to a single organization?

Ans : Private Cloud

25) Which architectural layer is used as a backend in cloud computing?

Ans : cloud

26) Which one of the following options can be considered as the Cloud?

Ans : Hadoop

27) Which term describes the process of distributing data across multiple data centers?

Ans : Data replication

28)  Which of the following is a primary advantage of using cloud storage?

Ans : Scalability and flexibility

29) Which cloud computing concept involves storing data in different geographic locations?

Ans : Data geo-distribution

30) Which of the following is a characteristic of public cloud?

Ans : Shared resources among multiple organizations

31) Which of the following is a benefit of using cloud computing?

Ans: Reduced need for physical storage

32) What does "SaaS" stand for in cloud computing?

Ans: Software as a Service

33) Which cloud service model provides virtualized computing resources over the internet?

Ans: IaaS

34) Which of the following is NOT a characteristic of cloud computing?

Ans: Fixed pricing

35) What is the purpose of a Virtual Private Cloud(VPC)?

Ans: To create an isolated section of the cloud for security.

36) Which cloud deployment model is used by a single organization?

Ans: Private Cloud

***37) Which of the following is a key benefit of serverless computing?

Ans: Automatic scaling

38) In cloud computing, what is "auto-scaling"?

Ans: The automatic adjustment of computing resources based on demand

39) Which of the following is a characteristic of Platform as a service (PaaS)?

Ans:  Provides a platform to develop, run and manage applications

***40) Which cloud deployment model is most suitable for companies that require dedicated infrastructure with enhanced security?

Ans: Private Cloud

41) Which of the following cloud service models allows users to develop, run and manage applications without the complexity of building and maintaining the infrastructure?

Ans: PaaS

42) Which of the following cloud services is most commonly used for scalable storage?

Ans: Amazon S3

***43)  What is cloud computing?

Ans: The delivery of computing services over the Internet

44) What does IaaS stand for?

Ans: Infrastructure as a Service

45) What is the primary role of a client in a client-server architecture?

Ans: To request services from a server

46) What is a server?

Ans: A computer or system that provides resources, data, services or programs to other computers, known as clients, over a network 

47) What is a cloud data center?

Ans: A facility used to house computer systems and associated components for cloud computing

48) What is a key advantage of using cloud data centers?

Ans: Scalability and flexibility in resource management

49) Name a popular cloud service provider.

Ans: AWS (Amazon Web Services)

50) What is the primary service offered by Google Cloud?

Ans: Cloud computing services

51) What is Microsoft Azure primarily known for?

Ans: Providing a range of cloud services including analytics, storage and networking

52) Which cloud platform is known for it's extensive machine learning services?

Ans: Google Cloud Platform

53) What does PaaS stand for?

Ans: Platform as a Service

54) Which cloud service model provides on-demand software applications?

Ans: SaaS (Software as a Service)

55) What is the function of a VPN?

Ans: To create a secure connection over a less secure network

56) Which protocol is used to ensure secure remote login?

Ans: SSH(Secure Shell)

57) What does IDS stand for in network security?

Ans: Intrusion Detection System

58) What is the main benefit of cloud elasticity?

Ans: The ability to scale computing resources up or down as needed

59) What does hybrid cloud refer to?

Ans: A combination of private and public cloud environments

60) What is cloud migration?

Ans: The process of moving data, applications, or other business elements to a cloud computing environment

61) Which cloud service provider is known for its simple storage service (S3)?

Ans: AWS(Amazon Web Services)

***62) What command allows you to determine whether an IP access list is enabled on a particular interface?

Ans: show ip interface

***63) What router command will permit SMTP mail to only host 1.1.1.1?

Ans: access-list 110 permit tcp any host 1.1.1.1 eq smtp

***64) What type of network security device scans for viruses and malware?

Ans: Antivirus scanning devices

***65) Which cloud service provider should be chosen for extensive support of Linux, Windows Server, and SQL Server?

Ans: Azure

*** 66) Which of the following cloud service provider does not provide application lifecycle management?

Ans : Azure ,GCP and AWS -> none of them provides application lifecycle management

67) Which of the following terms describes a system that automatically increases or decreases its resources based on demand?

Ans : Elastic computing

***68) Which of the following is an application monitoring and observability service?

Ans : Amazon CloudWatch

***69) Which of the following metric shows the ratio of time a system or component is functional to the total time it is required or expected to function?

Ans : Reliability Time

70) Which of the following is not a type of cloud server?

Ans : Merged Cloud Server

71) Which of the following is the application of cloud computing?

Ans : All (Adobe, PayPal, Google G Suite)

72) Which of the following is an example of the cloud?

Ans  : All (AWS, Dropbox, Cisco WebEx)

73) Which of the following is an example of a PaaS cloud service?

Ans : All (Heroku, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Windows Azure)

74) Which of the following payment options is best suited for small business in cloud?

Ans :  pay-as-you-go

75) Which of the following has many features of that is now known as cloud computing?

Ans : Internet

76) Which of the following is an essential concept related to Cloud?

Ans : Abstraction

77) Cloud computing is a concept that involves pooling physical resources and offering them as which sort of resource?

Ans : virtual

78) What is the maximum file size that can be uploaded to an object storage service in a single PUT operation in Amazon S3?

Ans : 5 GB

79) In AWS you can create DB instances by using which of the following?

Ans : AWS Management Console, Amazon RDS APIs, AWS Command Line Interface

80) If you want to share data between different EC2 instances then which of the following file storage solution you should opt for?

Ans : EFS

81) SaaS --> Google Workspace, Dropbox, Salesforce, Cisco WebEx, Concur, GoToMeeting
    PaaS --> AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Windows Azure, Heroku, Force.com, Google App Engine, Apache Stratos, OpenShift
    IaaS --> DigitalOcean, Linode, Rackspace, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cisco Metapod, Microsoft Azure, Google Compute Engine(GCE)

82) In MS Word, if you have to indent the paragraph then which of the following shortcut key you should use?

Ans : Ctrl + M

83) 
